# Meeting notes

### This page is unmaintained.


# July 2, 2012 (public)

- Attendence: Nick Santos, John Lenz, Chad Killingsworth.
- Release wanted.
- improvements to webservice:
      Nick: Host Plovr instead?
      John: open sourcing the webservice?
      Chad: webservice lowers barrier to entry
      General agreement the webservice needs to be simple.
      AI: Open source the webservice UI.
      John: still own chad typed optimization option in web service UI and individual warning options
- discussed jQuery integration
      Chad: Generally positive. Some jQuery team members object to annotating jQuery code
      Nick: putting together changes to allow warning whitelists
- Nick to document @expose

# April 16, 2012 (public)

- Attendence: Alan Leung, Nick Santos, John Lenz, ChadKillingsworth.
- Release?
- Problem with sorting dependency in some projects. We need to put that in the release note.
- JQuery status, ready to do, unit tests passed, getting the JQuery specific stuff in
- How are Googlers going to use it? Check with the chain coding convention
- Status on moving to Git? Not right, may be we should set up an official Mirror.
- (Issue 708) Question about what we are inferring or what we are not inferring in an anonymous function
- Nick working with type inference dealing with inner function.



# April 2, 2012 (public)

- Attendence: Alan, Nick, John, ChadKillingsworth.
- The @expose feature is working properly, we should announce it next release.
- Chad: New YouTube API extern missing methods. Chad is working on it.
- John: Side Effect propagation problem (issue:687)
- Nick: Type checking bug fixes
- John: Google specific things. Deleting properties cause performance issues in V8?
- Alan: Get message fallback


# Feb 21, 2012 (public)

- Attendance: Alan, Nick, John, ChadKillingsworth.
- Release after SourceFile Change.
- Chad' been busy.
- What to call the new exporting function?  @expose Nick is interested in implementing it / writing a design doc for it.
- Nick, white listing work.
- John, GWT profiling information
- Chad, student found a spelling error in Closure Library, side effect status.
 *

# Feb 21, 2012 (public)

- Attendance: Alan
- Alan: How to speed up compilation speed..
- Nick: i18n story for closure? Think about it.


# Jan 23, 2012 (public)

- Attendance: Alan, Nick, John, Andre, Chad
- Nick: would like to start working on a more library-like compilation model. For example, you type-check closure library, and then the compiler spits out externs, and then you compile your application code against closure-library externs. So you wouldn't need to re-type-check closure-library when your application code changes.
- John: Do you allow different options for optimizations vs. type-checking?
- Chad: This doesn't really solve the general problem of auto-generating externs.  What's the exact use case?
- Alan: How do you handle version mismatches?
- Needs a formal proposal

- Nick: Auto-sorting by dependency information?
- John: Do you provide validation of dependency info? (if you require something, it must be provided?) we do this for closure library, should we do it for others?

- Chad: working on jquery optimizations. Introducing an "expandedEach" (which the developer knows is explicitly expanded at compile time) has made the code a lot simpler. There are currently two main problems:
- We can't export properties in a way such that setting the property  from external code will work
- Reference to 'this' seem to break.
- Discussion about:
- It's impossible for the compiler to know what "this" refers to, because it changes at runtime.
- Should there be a "conservative" collapsing mode?
- Are there ways we can export a property in a way that will work for property assignments?

- Andre: The internationalization story is badly documented.
- Nick: What i18n do you need?
- Andre: XTBs would work
- Nick: There are a bunch of "completed" plugins in the wild, but we've never been sure about which one should be the "official" plugin, or the "official" build process
- John: Does Plovr solve this problem? If not, could we get Plovr to solve the build-process issues?
- Action Item: talk on the mailing list about what the official solution should be.


# August 15 (public)

  -Attendance: Alan, Yi, John
  -External user: Zack Grossbert

  -Yi: Build rules work, working with build team. Bug fixes

  -John: More people are adopting our source mapping format! Inliner fixes.

  -Alan: Bug fixes.

  -Zack: Gave us an overview of his library pruner


  -Discussions:

  -none



# August 1 (public)

  -Attendance: Alan, Fadi, Nick, Yi, John
  -External user: Zack Grossbert, Oliver Nicholas

  -Nick: Type system updates. Code Indexer work. Trying to resolve ES5 check issues.

  -Yi: Build rules work

  -John: Ground work for accepting AST generated by other programs

  -Fadi: Analysis Framework work, testing it out on constant expression order optimizations

  -Alan: Closure Template work / optimization.

  -Zack (NetIQ): Spiffy UI framework, Using GWT / Some work that uses Closure compiler for extracting needed code in a library

  -Oliver (Yelp) Working on using JQuery for Google's CDN.

  -Discussions:

  -New Release? Need to document ES5 checks.

# July 18 (public)

  -Attendance: Alan, Fadi, Nick, Yi, Bashir, Tyler, Andy (external user)

  -Nick: Symbol Table API, proposal interms of a CL.

  -Tyler / Bashir: Hot swapping stuff in the the type.

  -Yi: Build rules work.

  -Alan: Bug fixes / string.split optimization

  -Fadi: Analysis framework (xml configurations)

  -Discussion:

  -Public documentation for compiler flags. Opened issue for one.

 